Sample App Tutorial Page Compilation (#6007)
knative/docs: docs/bookstore/page-0.5/pg0.5-env-setup.md

???+ success "Verify"

    You should see the pods in the `knative-eventing` and `knative-serving` namespaces running before proceeding.

    ![Image](images/image2.png)

#### **Extra Step for Minikube Users:**

![Image](images/image3.png)

Attention! In case you're not using the Knative Quick Start, set up the tunnel manually to connect to services of type `LoadBalancer`:

Run the following command and keep the terminal open:

```shell
minikube tunnel
```

???+ success "Verify"
    If there aren't any error messages, it means you have set up the tunnel successfully.

### **Task 2: Running the Bookstore Web App**

![Image](images/image12.png)

The Next.js frontend app is located in the `docs/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/start/frontend` folder.

Ensure that port 3000 on your local machine is not being used by another application.

#### **Deploy the Frontend App**

You can either [build the image locally](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/02_our_app/) or use our pre-built image. If you are using the pre-built image, you can proceed to the next step.

When ready, run the following command to deploy the frontend app:

```shell

> kubectl apply -f config/100-front-end-deployment.yaml

Reviewer: I think I find pretty annoying the fact that I cannot just copy and paste the commands so I think all the commands should assume I'm on the root of the repository (so that I can just copy and paste the command)

```suggestion
kubectl apply -f code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/start/frontend/config/100-front-end-deployment.yaml
```

Reviewer: I will not leave comments to other commands but I think all of them have the same problem

```

This will create the Deployment and expose it with a Service of type LoadBalancer to receive external traffic:

![Image](images/image11.png)

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

You will see that your front end pod is running.

![Image](images/image4.png)

#### **Port Forwarding (Optional under condition)**

![Image](images/image9.png)

You might need to set up port forwarding to access the app from your local machine.

Check if port forwarding is necessary by running:

```shell
kubectl get services -A

> ```

Reviewer: This i potentially a large list, I don't think we need to `-A` ?

![Image](images/image1.png)

If the `EXTERNAL-IP` for your frontend service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.

If port forwarding is required, open a new terminal and run:

```shell
kubectl port-forward svc/bookstore-frontend-svc 3000:3000
```

![Image](images/image8.png)

Don’t close the terminal when port-forwarding is established.

???+ success "Verify"

>     Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The UI page should appear!

Reviewer: I think if this link would open a new tab, it would make me easier to continue the tutorial

![Image](images/image6.png)

The Node.js server is located in the `docs/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/start/node-server` folder.

Ensure that port 8080 on your local machine is not being used by another application.

#### **Deploy the Book Review Service: Node.js Server**

You can either [build the image locally](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/02_our_app/) or use our pre-built image. If you are using the pre-built image, you can proceed to the next step.

When ready, run the following command to deploy the Node.js server:

```shell
kubectl apply -f config/100-deployment.yaml
```

This command will pull the image and deploy it to your cluster as a Deployment. It will also expose it as a LoadBalancer to receive external traffic.

![Image](images/image15.png)

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

You will see that your Node.js server (node-server) pod is running.

![Image](images/image14.png)

#### **Port Forwarding (optional under condition)**

![Image](images/image9.png)

You might need to set up port forwarding to access the app from your local machine.

Check if port forwarding is necessary by running:

```shell
kubectl get services -A

> ```

Reviewer: Same here, do we need the `-A` ?

![Image](images/image7.png)

If the `EXTERNAL-IP` for your Node.js service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.

If port forwarding is required, open a new terminal and run:

```shell
kubectl port-forward svc/node-server-svc 8080:80
```

![Image](images/image17.png)

Don’t close the terminal when port-forwarding is established.

???+ success "Verify"

>     Visit [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in your browser. The Node.js service should be up and running.

Reviewer: Same here to open a new tab

>     And in your front end page, you should see the status turns green and say “Connected to node server”.

Reviewer: I see Hello World
![image](https://github.com/knative/docs/assets/33736985/5f432c09-d80d-440b-acde-ef363fbb5084)

Author: Yes! localhost:8080 should say "Hello, world!"

If you go to the front end bookstore page, it should say Connected to node server.

But let me change the wording here to make it more clear @pierDipi

Reviewer: Aah, now I get it, but why should I go to the `http://localhost:8080` then?

Reviewer: To put it differently, I don't see the value of port-forwarding this other backend server

Author: The reason why I do port-forwarding is:

In the front end, we will be sending the cloudevents to the backend.

https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/638cbfbd207be9ce8deee9783db4412a3f2a7670/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/solution/frontend/client/components/CommentList.js#L8

https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/638cbfbd207be9ce8deee9783db4412a3f2a7670/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/solution/frontend/client/components/CommentForm.js#L167

If we don’t do it, the host name will be an random ip address, and front end will not be able to identify the destination address. But if you have any other approach, please lmk! @pierDipi

# Environment Setup

![Image](images/image20.png)

In this page, we will be discussing how to set up your environment, and make sure to run up the UI front end and the Book Review Service’s node server.

## **What does the final deliverable for this section look like?**

> - You have a running kubernetes (k8s) cluster on your local laptop, with Knative Installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have a running Kubernetes (k8s) cluster on your local machine, with Knative installed.
```

> - You have your front end application deployed as kubernetes deployment with port-forwarding to localhost:3000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have your front end application deployed as Kubernetes deployment with port-forwarding to localhost:3000
```

Can you replace the other occurrences too (kubernetes -> Kubernetes)?

- You have your Node.js application deployed as kubernetes deployment with port-forwarding to localhost:8080

We will be fulfilling each requirement with the order above.

## **File Structure**

![Image](images/image21.png)

The code for the sample app is in `docs/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app`

> Under bookstore-sample-app folder, there are 2 folders:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under `bookstore-sample-app` folder, there are 2 folders:
```

> **/solution**: this folder contains all the yaml files, and the code you needed. Check it when you get stuck.
> 
> **/start**: this folder contains the necessary files for you to get started. Write all the configuration files yourself following the tutorial!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **/solution**: this folder contains all the yaml files, and the code you needed. Check it when you get stuck.

* **/start**: this folder contains the necessary files for you to get started. Write all the configuration files yourself following the tutorial!
```
Maybe use a list for better structure.

And not sure what you mean with `Write all the configuration files yourself following the tutorial!`. You mean something like "Save here all the configuration files yourself following the tutorial!"?

![Image](images/image16.png)

!!! tip

    Kuack suggests you to start from **/start**, write all the configuration files as you go over the tutorial, and check solutions when you get stuck.

## **Shortcut**

![Image](images/image10.png)

Running `docs/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/start/setup.sh` will automatically complete all tasks in this section.

!!! warning

    However, if you are not familiar with the process, we recommend reviewing the steps below.

## **Instructions**

### **Task 1: Set Up a Running Kubernetes Cluster with Knative Installed**

![Image](images/image13.png)

> Please follow the instructions here [https://knative.dev/docs/install/](https://knative.dev/docs/install/) to spin up your cluster!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions [here](https://knative.dev/docs/install/) to spin up your cluster with Knative installed!
```

???+ success "Verify"

>     You should see the pods in knative-eventing and knative-serving are running before proceeding forward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You should see the pods in the `knative-eventing` and `knative-serving` namespaces running before proceeding.
```

    ![Image](images/image2.png)

#### **Extra Step for Minikube Users:**

![Image](images/image3.png)

> Attention! People always forget this! If you're not using the Knative Quick Start, manually set up the tunnel to connect to LoadBalancer services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attention! In case you're not using the Knative Quick Start, set up the tunnel manually to connect to services of type `LoadBalancer`:
```

Run the following command and keep the terminal open:

```shell
minikube tunnel
```

???+ success "Verify"
    If there aren't any error messages, it means you have set up the tunnel successfully.

### **Task 2: Running the Bookstore Web App**

![Image](images/image12.png)

The Next.js frontend app is located in the `docs/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/start/frontend` folder.

Ensure that port 3000 on your local machine is not being used by another application.

#### **Deploy the Frontend App**

You can either [build the image locally](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/02_our_app/) or use our pre-built image. If you are using the pre-built image, you can proceed to the next step.

When ready, run the following command to deploy the frontend app:

```shell
kubectl apply -f config/100-front-end-deployment.yaml
```

> ![Image](images/image11.png)
> 
> This command will pull the image and deploy it to your cluster as a Deployment. It will also expose it as a LoadBalancer to receive external traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create the Deployment and expose it with a Service of type LoadBalancer to receive external traffic:

![Image](images/image11.png)
```

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

You will see that your front end pod is running.

![Image](images/image4.png)

> #### **Port Forwarding (Optional under condition)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### **Port Forwarding (optional under condition)**
```

what do you mean by "optional under condition"?

Author: I tested under MacOS and Fedora, and port-forwarding is not needed on MacOS sometimes. And I explained 
below. 
> If the `EXTERNAL_IP` for your frontend service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.

Do you think it is confusing or misleading to have "optional under condition" in the title? @creydr

Reviewer: The frontend can be exposed to the outside with an ingress? so that we don't need the port-forwarding ?

Author: The port-forwarding is mainly to forward the service to localhost. If we don't do it, the host name will be an random ip address.

![Image](images/image9.png)

You might need to set up port forwarding to access the app from your local machine.

Check if port forwarding is necessary by running:

```shell
kubectl get services -A
```

![Image](images/image1.png)

> If the `EXTERNAL_IP` for your frontend service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `EXTERNAL-IP` for your frontend service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.
```

If port forwarding is required, open a new terminal and run:

```shell
kubectl port-forward svc/bookstore-frontend-svc 3000:3000
```

![Image](images/image8.png)

Don’t close the terminal when port-forwarding is established.

???+ success "Verify"

    Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The UI page should appear!

    ![Image](images/image19.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: remove empty lines

### **Task 3: Running the Book Review Service**

![Image](images/image6.png)

The Node.js server is located in the `docs/code-samples/eventing/bookstore-sample-app/start/node-server` folder.

Ensure that port 8080 on your local machine is not being used by another application.

#### **Deploy the Book Review Service: Node.js Server**

You can either [build the image locally](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/02_our_app/) or use our pre-built image. If you are using the pre-built image, you can proceed to the next step.

When ready, run the following command to deploy the Node.js server:

```shell
kubectl apply -f config/100-deployment.yaml
```

This command will pull the image and deploy it to your cluster as a Deployment. It will also expose it as a LoadBalancer to receive external traffic.

![Image](images/image15.png)

```shell
kubectl get pods
```

> You will see that your node-server pod is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will see that your Node.js server pod is running.
```

Author: Updated to Node.js server (node-server), as the deployment and pod name should be `node-server-xxxx`

![Image](images/image14.png)

> #### **Port Forwarding (Optional under condition)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### **Port Forwarding (optional under condition)**
```

![Image](images/image9.png)

You might need to set up port forwarding to access the app from your local machine.

Check if port forwarding is necessary by running:

```shell
kubectl get services -A
```

![Image](images/image7.png)

> If the `EXTERNAL_IP` for your Node.js service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the `EXTERNAL-IP` for your Node.js service is `127.0.0.1`, port forwarding is not needed.
```

## **What does the final deliverable for this section look like?**

- You have a running Kubernetes (k8s) cluster on your local machine, with Knative installed.
- You have your front end application deployed as Kubernetes deployment with port-forwarding to localhost:3000

> - You have your Node.js application deployed as kubernetes deployment with port-forwarding to localhost:8080

Author: All names has been fixed.
